---
layout: post
title: "200 Days of Learnings"
date: 2015-05-05 09:40:32 -0500
comments: true
categories: learning
---

There is a hypothesis that you always learn something every day. I felt
intuitively that that was true, but had some doubts regarding the validity of it
on a longer term. After all, claiming that a specific thing happens _every_ day
is a bold thing to say. In the end, our lives consist of days: days of happiness,
days of anger, days of boredom (is it possible for anyone to be bored these days
anymore?). Is it really true that you learn something _every_ day of our lives?
I wanted to know. So I figured I would start writing what I'd learned each
night.

200 days later, I'm pretty sure I have an answer for you. But first, the data:

- Days I wrote: 221
- Days I forgot to write: 20
- Total Days Monitored: 241
- Current Streak: 42 days.

As you can see, I hit my 200 learning a couple weeks ago. It's a major milestone,
and I wanted to share it with you by listing some of the aforementioned
learnings with you. 

After all these days, I'm convinced that each day has a lesson for you, and it's
up to you to either take the lesson of let it go. For me, reflecting on the day
has become an integral part of who I am, and although some lessons are bigger
and more grandiose than others, they are lessons nonetheless. So, without
further ado, let's see what we've got (I haven't looked at them for a very long
time either, so it will be just as exciting to see what I've learned so far):

[I've abbreviated "Today I learned" to TIL, since most of my notes start that
way.]

- 2014 September 7. First day.

Hackathon #smartcitygt. Learned not to complain about having to be in the
best environment to deliver results. Learned that you should always challenge
your limits (often just false limits once you test them).

- 2014 September 10

I confirmed that writing 'Today's To Do List' is an awesome idea to get
productive.

- 2014 September 13

TIL how a spider makes its spider web. Spoiler: It's a spiral, not concentric
circles.

- 2014 September 15

TIL how to say hello in Ukrainian: Privit.

- 2014 September 17

I learned the importance of not signing NDAs mindlessly, since that would
limit our possibilities.

- 2014 September 18

I have to learn to expect less of others.

- 2014 September 19

TIL about continously questioning of our own beliefs. The importance of raising
awareness about issues (and that it is mentally fatigating for me to do so).

- 2014 September 20

TIL that a good way to create a website is by sketching it on paper first and
then dividing user flow in chunks, which are then discussed before done.

- 2014 September 22

TIL about the Business Model Canvas and how to fill one, and realized that there
are a lot of people trying to change Guatemala for the better. I also learned
that one should always teach employees as much as possible. Ideas are not
stolen, businesses are not stolen by betrayals. One should think that the odds
are better that they will stay vs they will set up the competitor. Open
knowledge.

- 2014 September 24

Today I burned out at work. I came back a little later and could do some more
work, but I wasn't as productive as I wanted to be. I learned not to be too hard
with myself.

- 2014 September 26. The day it starts paying off to be reflective.

On a meta level, I discovered that I'm now more aware of my own actions, and
regulate them before and evaluate after I've done them. I understood the value
of thanking an effort to help, even if it didn't help me at all (the good
intentions matter).

- 2014 October 01

I learned that little details make the difference. And I mean it with
people. Be kind and do something extra nice to people you care about from time
to time. It won't go unnoticed. And you'll love more. And be loved more. And
that's what we all want.

- 2014 October 09

TIL to stop caring about what others think about you. You just have to be clear
and transparent with yourself and with others. Be you. Be true. Be congruent.
There will always be people who agree and people that don't. Surround yourself
with people that agree with your vision and work towards it.

- 2014 October 16

If I sleep less, I am less patient.

- 2014 October 17

TIL that leadership is not about imposing your ideas. It is not about wasting
your time convincing others. It's about having clear and straightforward ideas
that are so great others can't say no. Have a clear thought of where the
conversation should go. I learned that talking to influential people can be
beneficial for making your point across all members. I don't have all the
answers, and people often have great ideas that expand on what you had planned
from the beginning. Clear thoughts.

- 2014 October 25

I learned that there are cases where saying what you want to say will not help 
you achieve whatever you want to achieve. In those cases, remaining silent is a
much better alternative.

- 2014 November 5

TIL that I mustn't let other people's moods bring me down. I also confirmed that
helping others out makes me feel great. I am a positive and enthusiastic person
in the inside.

- 2014 November 8

TIL to speak the truth clearly and without fear of rejection. Tell about your
past experiences, your present decisions and your future goals. If someone has a
problem with that, that's not your fault. And if they're vocal, you can defend
with more truth.

- 2014 November 10

What doesn't get measured doesn't get improved.

- 2014 November 11

TIL about the Bitcoin protocol and how it uses P2P, Digital Signatures and Proof
of Work to function. I also learned that taking a shower increases your quality
of sleep. I've been trying this myself and it definitely helps. Take a shower
with lights off to start relaxing your body, preparing to sleep. Perfect wind
down routine.

- 2014 November 14

TIL about Amazon Kindle's ability to convert .pdf to .mobi by sending it as an 
email attachments with the subject "Convert". I also learned about the 
importance of understanding others and not go with the mindset of trying to 
convince them, but rather to understand.

- 2914 November 23

TIL that if you want to achieve something, you'll have to do two things: 1.
Speak your mind without fear, and 2. Be laser focused and not care what others
think. I also want to miss less sunsets.

- 2014 November 27

TIL that a fire is hypnotizing and that wine makes me sleepy.

- 2014 November 28

You don't have to be the best, you just gotta be well connected.

- 2014 November 29

I learned that there is a class-skipper subculture at MIT, where students learn
independently much faster than their class-attending peers, because they use the 
textbooks alone and teach each other.

- 2014 December 1

TIL about how DNS DoS attacks can have massive repercussions on the Internet and
is a form of cyberwarfare. I also learned that it is harder to succeed as a 
partially remote team than a fully remote team because of the consistent 
communication channels, i.e. everything gets talked about in Slack, or
Facebook, etc., which enables the whole team to understand better why certain
decisions are being made. The remote people have to feel included and not left
out.

- 2014 December 31

Today I realized how tiny our problems are. I shouldn't even be bothered by
small offenses. Always ask: _will I remember this one year from now?_

- 2014 January 9

Austin is not walkable. Not with a carry on bag.

- 2015 January 12

People are genuinely good and trying to help you.

- 2015 January 18

Today I lost my fear and switched to Vim as my primary text editor, thanks to
Ben Orenstein. [UPDATE: I will never go back. I love Vim now.]

- 2015 January 20

Have a system. Life is a numbers game. Which directly translates to having
purpose in what you're doing. You have to focus on the essentials, and say no to
everything else.

- 2015 January 28

TIL that approaching people is not that bad after all. It's just a matter of
  being different, being memorable. Being memorable, even if you don't get what
you wanted, will make people help you.

- 2015 March 4

TIL about fear payoffs. When you are afraid of doing something, ask yourself
what you're gaining by not taking action. Is it comfort of not having to make a
decision?

- 2015 March 17

Craft your failure so, that you learn the most from it. If you're not failing,
you're not learning as fast as you could.

- 2015 March 28

TIL it is actually possible to travel without checking any bags at the airport.
So much more liberating. 

- 2015 April 21

TIL the importance of powering through. Of being constant. I need to get better
at this.

- 2015 May 2

TIL that in order to get long term respect for your determination and
discipline, I have to say no and risk short term retaliation. I have to focus on
what makes the most impact (massive) and do only that.

Sticking to a habit is hard. Doing something consistently is incredibly
difficult to achieve. That's why the books we read keep advising us that in
order to be great at something, it's not about cramming every bit of information
into one session, and then never look at it again, but rather maintain a steady
pace over a longer period of time. 

Do you want to become a better writer? Write 500 words each day for a year. What
you end up with is 182,500 words. Considering that an average page has 250
words, you will have written 730 pages! The mere exercise of imagining being
tasked with writing 730 pages sounds excruciatingly difficult. How will I, a
mortal, be able to do such a thing? I've never done it before! That is the power
of the consistent habit.
